How do we then prepare the code for production?
Now this obviously always depends on the kind of application you're building.
In general, you want to use something which is called environment variables and I will show you what
this is
in our concrete projects in this module, no worries. Use environment variables instead of hardcoding
certain values like API keys,
port numbers, passwords and so on into your code.
Also make sure that if you are using some third party services like stripe, that you use the production
API keys and not the development keys, for example stripe which we used gave us a testing API key while
that is obviously what we want to use as long as we test the application, as soon as we deploy it
we want to use the production ready API
and that is something that also depends on the third parties or on the third party APIs you might be
using.
Now we also might have some mechanisms to handle errors or to log something and there we want to make sure
that we reduce the error output details.
We don't want to send sensitive info to our users,
so if something fails, if some error message is thrown, we want to make sure that it does contain as little
information as possible because the users of our website should of course not get any insights into
our source code.
Now by default and in the way we build this project or these projects in this course, we'll not have problems
with that because if we use the default express error handling middleware and the default errors and
the custom errors we build also don't contain any sensitive information,
then we are fine but if you're building an application where you create your own error objects, maybe
with a lot of data added to them, you should make sure to strip some of that data out of these custom
errors
when you deploy your application or when you prepare your application for deployment. Regarding the responses
your application sends, you want to make sure that you set secure response headers.
There are some response headers, some headers you can add to any response which don't hurt, which prevent
the clients from doing certain things, certain things and so on and therefore setting these
headers won't hurt
and I will show you in this module how to easily set these headers and how to find out which headers
that are,
so we'll implement some best practices there.
Now in a typical node application, you might also be serving some assets, some javascript, some css
files and there, adding compression can be a good idea because that will reduce your response size
or therefore also your response time because the client has to download less
and most modern browsers and so on are able to download compressed, so zipped assets and unzip them on
the fly directly in the browser,
so this is not some fancy mechanism where you would have to do a lot of manual coding,
it's actually pretty straightforward and the browser does a lot of the work for you.
You also want to configure logging so that you are aware of what's happening on your server.
Since we're now not testing the server anymore but real users do interact with it, we certainly want
to log interactions into log files that we can look into at any time
we feel like it.
So there, that is another thing we want to add so that we can stay up to date about what's happening.
And last but not least, ssl/tls,
so encryption of data in transit is also something we might want to look into. Thus far in this course
we used the normal http server and therefore our communication with the server was not encrypted, for
testing this is obviously fine,
now for a production ready app, it's strongly recommended that you do encrypt your connections and therefore
I will also show you how to turn that on in your node express application in this module.
It's also worth mentioning that the last three points here, compression logging and ssl are often handled
by your hosting provider and I will talk about that when we choose a hosting provider because often
or typically, you want to use some managed service where these things are also managed for you so that
you don't have to worry too much about that.
I'll still show you how to enable it manually but it might be worth noting that you probably don't have
to do that when deploying your application.